# Over The Wire: Bandit - 15->16

https://overthewire.org/wargames/bandit/bandit16.html

- **Category:** wargames basic

## Challenge

> The password for the next level can be retrieved by submitting the password of the current level to port 30001 on localhost using SSL encryption. Helpful note: Getting “HEARTBEATING” and “Read R BLOCK”? Use -ign_eof and read the “CONNECTED COMMANDS” section in the manpage. Next to ‘R’ and ‘Q’, the ‘B’ command also works in this version of that command… Commands you may need to solve this level: ssh, telnet, nc, openssl, s_client, nmap

> Helpful Reading Material: [Secure Socket Layer/Transport Layer Security on Wikipedia](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Secure_Socket_Layer)
[OpenSSL Cookbook - Testing with OpenSSL](https://www.feistyduck.com/library/openssl-cookbook/online/ch-testing-with-openssl.html)


## Solution

`openssl` is a crypto toolkit implementing Transport Layer Security (TLS) and related crypto standards. Examples of what you can do are: Certificate Authority signing, compute hashes, processing public/private keys, implement SSL/TLS client connection to remote servers.

1. ssh into `bandit15` with password `BfMYroe26WYalil77FoDi9qh59eK5xNr`
2. Here we need to use `openssl` command and the `s_client` option to use TLS. See the man page for `openssl` and check out the `s_client` section.
3. You can connect to a server with the following syntax `openssl s_client -connect <host>:<port>`
4. Once connected, you will see additional certificate information. This can be silenced with `-quiet`
5. Paste in the current level password to obtain the next level password

```
ssh bandit15@bandit.labs.overthewire.org -p 2220

bandit15@bandit:~$ openssl s_client -connect localhost:30001 -quiet
depth=0 CN = localhost
verify error:num=18:self signed certificate
verify return:1
depth=0 CN = localhost
verify return:1

BfMYroe26WYalil77FoDi9qh59eK5xNr

Correct!
cluFn7wTiGryunymYOu4RcffSxQluehd

```

It is also possible to do this in one line

```
bandit15@bandit:~$ echo "BfMYroe26WYalil77FoDi9qh59eK5xNr" | openssl s_client -ign_eof -connect localhost:30001 -quiet
depth=0 CN = localhost
verify error:num=18:self signed certificate
verify return:1
depth=0 CN = localhost
verify return:1
Correct!
cluFn7wTiGryunymYOu4RcffSxQluehd
```

Flag
```
cluFn7wTiGryunymYOu4RcffSxQluehd
```
